Vue.js is a framework that can be used to create a single-page web application,
or it can be dropped into any single webpage.
The Vue instance, as it's called,
plugs into your existing HTML structure,
and through the use of custom tags,
attributes, and template syntax,
enables binding of data and events from the HTML to the Vue instance.
In today's class, we're going to create two Vue apps or instances,
one One the product page and one for the cart page.
For the product page,
we're going to use Vue to track the currently selected variant.
This will be determined by the combination of options selected by the user via this form.
We'll import the list of variants from the Shopify back-end and
use the values from these drop-downs to determine the current variant.
For the cart page,
we're going to import the cart data from
our Shopify back-end into our instance using the cart AJAX API.
We're also going to import a specific collection to offer upsells below the cart,
as well as add transition loading states for the add to cart buttons and
the cart table given that we will be making asynchronous calls to the AJAX API.
That's the overview of what we're going to use Vue for in our Shopify theme.
Note that Vue instances and Shopify templates have a one-to-one relationship here.
As we start to build and then finish looking at Vue,
it should start to become clearer why we're doing it this way.
At the conclusion of this class,
you might want to explore what other templates in
your Shopify theme might benefit from a Vue instance.
An example I can think of off the top of my head is the collection template.
The Shopify store is with a lot of individual products,
you might want to create a more sophisticated filtering system
where the user won't need to
refresh the page after adding or removing
different parameters to filter a list of products.
This would involve a lot of data being updated based on
user input and would make a good opportunity for using Vue.
For now, let's focus on the two most common areas
where Vue.js makes sense on most Shopify sites,
which in my opinion would be variant selections on product pages and cart interactions.